Adaptable: Whenever weapons of this Quality are held in two hands instead of one for Attack Actions, add +1 to Damage.
Ammunition: Weapons of this Quality require ammunition to be used.  The weapon will have an amount it holds before it must be reloaded. See Repeating.
Defensive: Shields and weapons of this Quality add a +10 Base Chance to Parry.
Entangling: Immediately after striking a foe, weapons of this Quality force a foe to Resist either a Chokehold or Takedown – you choose which. Additionally, whenever a foe is threatened with a Chokehold or Takedown with this weapon, they must flip the results to fail when Resisting its effects.
Fast: Whenever a foe is struck by weapons of this Quality, they suffer a -10 Base Chance to Dodge or Parry.
Fiery: After a foe is struck with a weapon of this Quality, both the foe and one other combatant who is Engaged with them must succeed at a Coordination Test or be set On Fire (see Chapter 9: Hazards & Healing).
Finesse: Weapons of this Quality always reference [AB] whenever dealing Damage, instead of [CB].
Gunpowder: Weapons of this Quality can be loaded and fired while standing in an Engagement. Furthermore, these weapons cannot be Dodged or Parried. Finally, your Fury Dice explode on a face '1' or '6' when dealing Damage.
Immolate: After a foe is struck with a weapon of this Quality, they must succeed at a Coordination Test or be set On Fire. The weapon is immediately extinguished after a successful attack, until relit.
Ineffective: Weapons of this Quality cannot deal Damage or inflict Injuries.
Light: Whenever weapons or shields of this Quality are held in your off-hand when attacking with a melee weapon in your primary hand, add +1 to Total Damage.
Powerful: Immediately after striking an Engaged foe, weapons of this Quality force a foe to Resist with Toughness or be shoved out of the Engagement.
Pummeling: Weapons of this Quality always refer to [BB] whenever inflicting Damage, instead of [CB]. Pummeling weapons can only inflict Moderate Injuries, never Serious or Grievous Injuries. Finally, Pummeling weapons cannot be used to cause Bleeding.
Punishing: Immediately after striking a foe, weapons of this Quality may add a 1D6 Fury Die to Total Damage in exchange for spending 1 additional Action Point on this Turn. You’ll learn more about Action Points and Fury Dice in Chapter 8: Combat.
Reach: Weapons of this Quality may strike a foe you’re Engaged with or standing one yard away from outside of an Engagement. Additionally, foes who are armed with a Reach weapon can make an Opportunity Attack whenever someone Charges or Runs toward them.
Reload: The weapon can be reloaded after it is empty.
Repeating: Ranged weapons of this Quality can be fired multiple times without having to spend Action Points to load. See Ammunition.
Shrapnel: Whenever a weapon with this Quality is fired, it affects multiple targets in a Cone Template.
Slow: Whenever a foe is struck by weapons of this Quality, they gain a +10 Base Chance to Dodge or Parry its Damage.
Throwing: Weapons of this Quality do not have a Medium or Long Distance increment for ranged weapons.
Vicious: Weapons of this Quality grant an additional 1D6 Chaos Die to determine whether you inflict an Injury upon a foe.
Volatile: When you Critically Fail an Attack Action or Perilous Stunt when using weapons of this Quality, roll a 1D6 Chaos Die. On a result of 1 to 5, the weapon misfires, requiring an hour to clean and repair. On a result of face ‘6’, it explodes, dealing 2D10+2 Damage from fire to you and destroying the weapon. This Damage cannot be Dodged, Parried or Resisted.
Weak: Weapons of this Quality can only inflict Moderate or Serious Injuries, never Grievous Injuries.
