Blessing in Disguise|You have been watched over by a god who favors them above all other Backgrounds. But perhaps this blessing represents the attentions of Abyssal fiends acting of their own accord, waiting to turn you into a thrall once your fate runs dry.|Whenever the time calls for you to suffer a debilitating Injury or face death, you may alternatively gain 1 permanent Chaos Rank (instead of spending a Fate Point) to ignore it entirely.
Danger Sense|You tend to get a “funny feeling” whenever a situation may turn dangerous. This danger sense also leads to odd dreams, and sometimes plagues them with unusual visions during their waking hours.|Whenever you are Surprised, spend one Fortune Point to avoid it and take your Turn as normal.
Dauntless|Your sheer force of will helps them withstand many challenges. Rarely do they cross the threshold to fear and darkness, as their stalwart nature shields them from the horrors that surround them.|You are immune to the effects of the Intimidate Skill and cannot be Stunned or Knocked Out!
Esoteric Memory|You have a preternatural ability for remembering details and subconsciously committing things to memory. They may even develop odd rituals to help jog their memories.|When attempting to recall a particular detail or remember a fact, you always succeed at Scrutinize Tests.
Fortune's Wheel|You are favored by Lady Luck. In a sense, they are her emissaries in an unkind and capricious world, either victims of its accidents or beneficiaries of its boons.|Anytime you generate a Critical Failure after rolling D100, automatically add one Fortune Point into the Fortune Pool.
Grim Resolve|When the chips are down, you manage to pull themselves up by the bootstraps.|Immediately after you suffer Damage from a melee or ranged weapon, spend a Fortune Point to ignore it entirely, therefore negating both Damage and any Injuries you may have suffered. You may even use this after failing to Dodge or Parry.
Manifest Destiny|You are a quick study and carry with them a wealth of experiences. Unlike other Backgrounds, their people are extremely adaptable and can use a number of techniques with a minimal level of understanding.|When using a Skill you do not possess Skill Ranks in, add a +5 Base Chance.
Mixed Family|Your lineage contains folks from another Background other than your own.|You gain a Trait from that Background as well.
Mountain Amongst Men|You are incredibly tall, towering over their own kind. Being a hulking brute may have negative social consequences, as they are oftentimes perceived as being clumsy, dunderheaded or somewhat terrifying. Are these assertions correct? You decide.|You are able to wield any two-handed melee weapon with one hand. This also means you may freely take advantage of the Adaptable Quality for weapons using only one hand. Finally, you will reference “91 to 100” on the Height table and will have a Husky build on the Build table.
Natural Selection|Favored above all others, you are the living instruments of the gods. A thankless few are granted an inkling of their might. To those born beneath the right stars, a great blessing is bestowed.|You may permanently change any one Primary Attribute to a 55%.
Noble Savage|Whether through purposeful training or accident, you have developed a natural resistance to the elements.|You never suffer physical Peril as a result of failed Toughness Tests
Seventh Sense|You possess an unusual mutation, allowing them to visualize scents in the air. They can envision odors in the air as if they were comprised of blurry, colored light. As a result, they may be prone to allergies as the seasons change or sensitive to changes in light.|Using your sense of smell to track others, you always succeed at Survival Tests.
Cavesight|Using a combination of sounds and acoustic wayfinding, you can see in complete darkness as if it were perfectly illuminated.|You can see completely in the dark below ground as if it were daylight, providing you are able to hear.
Children of the Earth|You have an almost magnetic pull toward the earth. This, combined with a lower center of gravity, makes you nigh impossible to topple.|You can never be forced off your feet or knocked Prone onto the ground by the elements, your enemies or even Magick. Finally, you will have a Corpulent build on the Build table.
Consume Alcohol|You possess an unusually high resistance to the poisonous effects of alcohol and tobacco. But the stink of these vices cling to their clothes and breath, marking them less desired among the well-landed.|While Intoxicated, you never suffer from the negative effects associated with this condition.
Mountain Warfare|You use their lower center of gravity to drive cold steel into their opponent, crushing armor and shattering bones beneath its impact. Coupled with familiarity of stone-cutting and wood-splitting tools, it makes you incredibly efficient when defending themselves.|When wielding any two-handed melee weapon using both hands, any attempt to Parry automatically succeeds (providing you have the Action Points to spend).
Grudgebearer|You harbor ancestral hatred, bringing violence upon hated enemies. Perceived grievances – both real and imagined – and general bigotry fuel this rage.|Whenever you use Fury Dice to determine weapon Damage, they explode on face ‘5-6’.
Ironclad|You have an incredibly stalwart physique, sleeping and eating daily in their armor.|When wearing a suit of armor, ignore its Encumbrance Value.
Oathkeeper|Renowned as master builders, jealously guard the secrets of their work, passing these ancient rituals to their children. But as your fingers are the size of blood sausages and calloused, you find it difficult to work with things smaller than their hands.|All armor, shields and weapons you forge with the Tradecraft Skill automatically gains the Castle-forged Quality.
Physical Prowess|Barrel-chested and powerfully muscled, they have an excellent physique and constantly train to maintain peak fitness. But when in private company, they enjoy binge eating on pies, sausages and blood pudding.|Reference either your [MB] or [QB] when determining Movement. Additionally, you may substitute Athletics in place of Coordination when Dodging ranged weapons. Finally, you will have a Husky build on the Build table.
Rune-Marked Glory|You mark keepsakes, armor and weapons with chalk and ink, telling of an ancient, forgotten glory that came before them. Some tattoo themselves from head to toe in these arcane symbols of might. Yet, these runes speak to an eldritch power, girding their body and mind against the effects of sorcery.|Whenever you suffer Damage or Peril from Magick, spend a Fortune Point to ignore it entirely. Note that this does not alleviate any additional effects the Magick spell may also cause.
Stentorian Voice|You have a loud and booming voice, and when they speak, others listen. They break out in song often, recounting tales of vendettas, unending turmoil and unresolved grievances towards other Backgrounds. It can become incredibly annoying to their non- Dwarven comrades, as they must put up with their inability to hold a tune.|Whenever you use Fellowship-based Skills, refer to either your Brawn or Fellowship Primary Attribute (whichever is highest).
Stoneheaded|You are stern and taciturn, unyielding to manipulation. Born with an innate ability to see through Magickal deception and trickery, their mind is unyielding.|You are immune to Magick which may control your mind and see through illusions without fail.
Strength of the Mountain|You can perform incredible feats of stamina. They claim that even the smallest runt of their clans can haul a hogshead of mead without breaking a sweat.|Any Skill Rank you acquire that relies on the Brawn Primary Attribute modifies your Base Chance by +15, instead of +10.
Clockworks of War|Telescoping muzzles, switchblade-style two-handed swords, cog-driven crossbows and folding axes are only the tip of the iceberg of what can be accomplished by modifying implements of war.|Provided you have the appropriate tools, any two- handed weapon can be modified into a compact one-handed version (which only you can wield). Despite being one-handed, it retains its original function, but now has an Encumbrance of 1.
Crag Fighting|Living amongst the hills and mountains, you have adopted a particular edge in combat. Using subterfuge and guile, you cleverly outpace foes using guerilla strike tactics.|You may Maneuver after any Melee Attack for 0 Action Points.
Denizen of Stone|Whenever you go to sleep, it is whispered that they turn to stone. While this seems like a wild tale, there seems to be some truth to it. Their skin oft turns a shade of grey as they rest as if all the blood had been drained from their veins!|You are never left Helpless for any reason.
Dungeons Deep|You are not a prodigious person. In fact, finding a living, breathing Gnome below ground is rare indeed. They pass soundlessly throughout the caverns below the earth, roaming the ‘under dark’ in solitude. Besides, who would go looking after this much-maligned race of people in the first place?|You leave no trace of your passing in underground areas or caves whatsoever, unless discovered by Magick or at a Critically Successful Awareness Test.
Escape Artist|You are wheedling and conniving. They cannot easily be caught or detained by the law.|You can never be caught in a Chokehold and may flip the results to succeed at Coordination Tests to slip through bonds and other situations which may detain you from moving.
Goldbergian|From devising mouse trap-styled children’s games to the chain-reactive devices that oscillate endlessly in your workshop, you have created a number of deliberately over-engineered machines in your time. You apply this same creative genius towards many of the professional arts, albeit at the cost of being seen as a madman.|Any Skill Rank you gain in Alchemy, Counterfeit, Skulduggery and Tradecraft modifies your Base Chance by +15, instead of +10.
Hocus Pocus|You have a penchant for manifesting sorcerous falsehoods which cannot be ignored.|Whenever a foe fails to Resist your Magicks, they Critically Fail instead.
Metropolitan|You are downright obsessive and clockwork-like in your mannerisms. Little imperfections are simply unacceptable, so meticulous and measured are your hands whenever you craft.|All trappings you craft (with exception to armor, shields and weapons) are always best-in-class, raising its resale value three times the listed price
Thieving Ways|You are a hair shorter than their kin. You find it easy to hide in gardens, particularly because they have a propensity to wear red caps and fake white beards!|Foes must flip their results to fail all Attack Actions or Perilous Stunts made with ranged weapons against you. However, you cannot wield two-handed weapons, carry a shield and must reduce your Movement by 3. Finally, you will reference “1 to 10” on the Height table and will have a Frail build on the Build table.
Tunnel Vision|Like your Mountain-born cousins, you have especially-attuned senses below the earth. Using a preternatural sense of touch, they can ‘feel’ their way around the underworld.|You can see completely in the dark below ground as if it were daylight, providing you are able to use your hands freely.
Underfoot|Living below the world in a burrow has made Gnome backs crooked. Because of this, they hobble around like old men, not necessarily dawdling, but quickly scurrying about, beneath the line of sight for most folk.|Add +3 to your Initiative.
Wretched Prankster|Poking fun at their personal flaws and faults in their armor, you annoy your foes to the point of weakness.|At your discretion, you may use your Guile Skill to both Dodge and Parry.
Beguiler|Your lies are hard to tell from truth, and you can use this to your advantage. With a string of insults and chiding, you infuriate and distract your opponent.|Reference either your [FB] or [BB] for the purposes of determining Damage Threshold. Additionally, you may substitute Guile in place of any Combat-based Skill when Parrying attacks.
Cat-like Reflexes|You are watched over by Abyssal demons. Those with this affectation are oftentimes shadowed by a black cat or have it as a beloved pet, ‘found’ at their doorstep as a kitten.|Whenever you fall, you may spend one Fortune Point to avoid Damage. In this case, you land on your feet, apparently unharmed.
Craven|You are almost laughably faint-hearted, ready to bolt at a moment’s notice. Cowardice has its place, particularly when you wish to keep their hide intact.|You may flip the results to succeed at Combat-based Skill Tests to Parry attacks made with melee weapons.
Farsight|Whether you are searching for something the size of a dormouse or making out the details of a coach laden with riches, they can clearly discern the smallest of details from half a mile away. But, should you try to exercise this ability without proper lighting, this sight become as useless as perfumery to a hog.|When attempting to discern minute details with your vision, you always succeed at Awareness Tests.
Fettered Chaos|Your Background is incredibly resilient despite its less than imposing physique. They illustrate an inexorable spiritual resistance towards the lure of Corruption and madness.|Whenever you suffer Corruption, decrease the number you gain by three (to a minimum of one). This means that if you suffer 6 Corruption, you gain 3 instead.
Fieldwarden|You are taught at a young age to wield an array of weapons to defend themselves and their homeland.|Ignore the Weak Quality of all ranged weapons you wield.
Fleet-Footed|In tense situations, you hop madly like a rabbit, being remarkably fast on your feet. This is particularly fortunate when they need to tuck and roll when attacked, but does absolutely no good when you needs to hike from one end of the shire to the mouth of a far-flung volcano.|Whenever you Charge or Run, add +6 yards to Movement.
Hijinks|Sly in your ways, you use their vexing mannerisms and general under-footedness to confound the tall folk. These pranks are meant to annoy, as you love to make others an ass to their japes.|Whenever you suffer Damage from a melee weapon, spend a Fortune Point to ignore it entirely.
Kleptomania|You are gifted with the ability to use illusion and sleight of hand tricks to make things disappear. Their hands may wander off on their own to nick things, only to realize later they find something stuffed in their pocket that wasn’t there before!|Whenever you are in a pinch and need one object that could realistically fit into your pocket, spend one Fortune Point to automatically find it within. For instance, you could use this to produce a single silver shilling (ss) from your pockets, but not several silver shillings (ss) without spending an equal number of Fortune Points.
Low Blow|When cornered, you will resort to nasty tricks to fell a foe. Menfolk are known to gasp in horror whenever they bear witness to this heinous (and deliberately) painful tactic.|Whenever you make a successful Melee Attack, you force a foe to Resist a Stunning Blow. You must be Engaged with a foe in order to use a Low Blow.
Memento|As a child you were given a precious keepsake to cherish. Typically, this is a bauble, cameo, necklace or ring – something you can hold close to their hearts. This memento brings comfort and solace in the face of danger. However, other pickpockets from your Background may covet this treasure for themselves.|When carrying your memento, your Disorder’s effects may be temporarily ignored for 24 hours by spending a Fortune Point
Pintsized|You, often mistaken for small children, are born a head shorter than their kinfolk. They are sometimes dubbed as pygmies or other derogatory terms born from ignorance.|Foes must flip their results to fail all Attack Actions or Perilous Stunts made with ranged weapons against you. However, you cannot wield two-handed weapons, carry a shield and must reduce your Movement by 3. Finally, you will reference “1 to 10” on the Height table and will have a Frail build on the Build table.
Broad Bellied|Your staggering girth has gifted you with the ability to haul anything without breaking a sweat.|You entirely ignore the effects of Overage, unless the value is in excess of two times your Initiative or Movement.
Cast Iron Stomach|The most important part of your biology is your gut. Your heavily muscled bellies contain most of their vital organs. Their stomachs are also monstrously powerful and able to digest nearly anything, a natural mutation resulting from generations of extreme gluttony.|You can gain sustenance from eating literally anything, including inanimate objects. This protects you from starvation entirely
Cruisin' for a Bruisin'|You have reaped the full benefits of their omnivorous diets from birth – mother’s milk, raw meat, dirt, Elven trinkets, swamp gas, human livers and tears – and are infused with great size and physical potency.|You may reference either [BB] or [BB] with any melee weapons you wield, including those which possess the Throwing Quality.
Frightening Bellow|You lungs are nearly as powerful as your stomach. This gives you amazing vocal capabilities, letting them rip out massive and terrifying roars as intimidation.|Whenever you succeed at an Intimidate Test, the foes you intimidated also suffer from Stress. If it is a Critical Success, they suffer from Fear instead.
Gut-plate|Your great belly is covered in an outer carapace of bones and muscles. Unfortunately, it makes for an easy target. Fortunately, it protects you from most blows.|Whenever unarmored, add +2 to your Damage Threshold as if you were wearing a suit of leather armor. You also gain the benefits of the Natural Quality in these cases.
Hunger Pangs|You often forget their gustatory exploits until faced with extreme situations. Bracing flashbacks of these orgiastic meals are then triggered – mandrake root; rivers of mead; endless heaps of meat!|Whenever you successfully Resist the effects of Stress, Fear, Terror or other effects that force you to make a Resolve Test, you immediately gain the benefits of one dose of mandrake root. If this is a Critical Success, you gain the benefits of three doses instead. When under Hunger Pang’s effects, you do not suffer the drawbacks normally associated with taking mandrake root.
Mighty Thews|You are all massive, but many possess tiny hands. However, a rarer breed has hands in proportion to the rest of their body. These mighty specimens can easily handle turning the spit over a fire on their own.|You are able to wield any two-handed melee weapon with one hand. This also means you may freely take advantage of the Adaptable Quality for weapons using one hand. Whenever you gain the benefits of the Adaptable Quality, you may add +2 to Total Damage, instead of the normal +1.
Odd Couple|Not many trust you, but they have found an unlikely ally in you. Perhaps it is their mutual love of food and alcohol, or even commiseration about being underdogs.|When fighting alongside Halfling allies, you gain a +10 Base Chance to strike with Attack Actions and Perilous Stunts.
Rotgut Spray|You have a natural predilection towards drink. Due to their almost furnace-like guts, they can ignite any alcohol they ingest to shoot it back out as a gout of flame.|After consuming an entire bottle of rotgut, you can belch it up as flaming breath. Treat this breath as a bottle bomb. However, you must immediately make a Toughness Test or become Intoxicated.
Slamdance|By bringing a powerful, hammy fist downwards to crush a foe, they also let fly their flintstone-like feet. This generally puts their enemies right where they want them - on the ground, ready for skewering.|Whenever you make a successful Stunning Blow, you force a foe to Resist a Takedown as well. You must attack with weapons possessing the Pummeling or Weak Quality to utilize this Talent.
Thick Lining|Those whose job it is to slaughter often expose themselves to the deadly natural poisons of tainted meats. Their constant work with natural poisons have made them immune to them, and some even prefer the tangy taste.|You are immune to Poisons of all types.
Wendigo|You have grown protective layers of blubber fat and thick white hair grows in large tufts all over their bodies. You are often called Wendigo and you are isolationist and even a little xenophobic.|You are immune from the effects of Frostbite, and automatically succeed at Toughness Tests to withstand cold weather.
Bewitching|You are striking to behold and others have a difficult time concentrating on anything else but their beauty. But beneath this veneer lies an insidious and alien power to bend people to their whim.|Whenever you cast Magick to control minds or use the Charm Skill on others, foes must flip their results to fail to Resist its effects. However, this only works if your foe can both see and hear you.
Beyond the Veil|You share a significant link with powers beyond mortal kith and kin and can manipulate them to their will. But, they have slowly fallen prey to the mind-bending warp and weft of the world beyond.|Whenever you fail or Critically Fail an Incantation Test, spend one Fortune Point to turn it into a Critical Success.
Deadly Aim|The world around your seems to fade to a blur as you fire your weapons, striking between the chinks in their foe’s armor with perfection. You may pridefully blind one eye with a bandana to illustrate your skills… or should you grow insane, gouge it out entirely with a spoon.|Whenever you make an Attack Action or Perilous Stunt using a ranged weapon, foes must flip the results to fail to Dodge, Parry or Resist it.
Enduring Mortality|Although not immortal, you some still hold that flicker of divinity within their blood, passed down from your ancestry. Your features may change over these long decades. Even horrid scars seem to accentuate your youthful and vigorous features.|You never suffer the debilitating effects of any Disease, aging or sickness – even by the hand of Magick.
In Crowd Treachery|You are suspicious and deeply secretive. You can be capricious and sullen. You are always ready to spring upon interlopers without a second thought.|Your first successful Attack Action against a foe adds a 1D6 Fury Die to your Damage results. This can be used against multiple foes during combat, taking advantage of your traitorous ways!
Firstborn|You people came to this world first, the favored children of nameless gods. This age-long lineage has made your people distant and fickle, but it has also given them insight beyond the Ætheric Veil and nature of the world around them.|Whenever learning new Magicks, you always succeed at your Incantation Test. Additionally, you never have to sacrifice Reward Points to finalize the process
Kindred Warband|You can be perceived as being particularly aloof and taciturn, sticking to their own. Contemptible as their disdain towards others may be, it is this preternatural intuition that makes you incredibly dangerous when fighting side-by-side.|When fighting alongside others of your Background, you gain a +10 Base Chance to strike with Attack Actions and Perilous Stunts.
Lament of the Ages|You live many decades beyond other Backgrounds, but this longevity comes at a cost. The petty concerns of the mortal coil weigh too heavily upon many you, giving birth to a melancholy that gives way to bouts of unmitigated rage, even nihilism. Others react instinctively to this behavior with great trepidation.|Whenever combat begins, select one foe. If the foe can clearly see and hear you, they must reduce all Damage they do to you by your [FB].
Meditative Healing|Gifted with the kindred’s ability to live between the weave of the world, you have learned how to harness an inner power to mend your own wounds.|Whenever you awaken from a good night’s sleep, you move one step up the Damage Condition Track positively. This means that if you were Grievously Wounded, you are now Seriously Wounded instead. Note that this does not ‘cure’ Injuries.
Nature's Own|Your people lived amongst the forest, beneath the jungle canopy, atop the highest mountain and even below the earth. With burrs, leaves, mud and the like clinging to their clothing, they emerge unwashed from the wilderness, acknowledging little reason to clean themselves up for civilized company.|You leave no trace of your passing in rural areas or above ground, unless discovered by Magick or a Critically Succeeded Awareness Test.
Nighteyes|You are not able to see completely in the dark, but can see clearly in the dim light of stars. It’s evident that to others when in these conditions, as your eyes tend to flash with their own light like an animal’s. It is enough to drive dim-witted peasants to demand that “the demon be hung by their neck until the lights go out”.|You can see completely in the dark above ground as if it were full daylight, provided there is starlight or moonlight in the sky.
Warrior's Tattoo|Intricate knots of indigo ink are painted or tattooed upon the bodies of warriors amongst your people, symbols of their might and prowess. But these same symbols make it incredibly difficult to get a job in a respectable winesink, as everyone knows the tattooed cannot be trusted with the cash till.|Add the Punishing Quality to any Martial Melee or Martial Ranged weapon you wield, and +1 to Total Damage with these same weapons.
